I can't
think of a scenario
where I've been sort
of looking at rockets that are outgoing
and a colleague.
Dear colleague,
you are being underneath it.
And if it's a bad, eerie feeling
and I just
when I see the rockets
coming out of that,
I want to be picking up the phone
and said, guys, they're coming.
They're coming.
But I know the defense system
here is so strong
that you get
as I'm seeing them come
up, you're
getting the sirens immediately.
I mean, you're getting those intercepts
right over your head.
We're actually from where we are.
We can actually see the rockets
Iron Dome rockets themselves taking off
and making those intercepts.
And we've been looking.
I know you're trying to figure out
if you can get to
underneath the cloud of smoke, but John's
pointing at that cloud of smoke now.
We've been watching it get bigger.
It was small, dark cloud of smoke.
Now it's like big and billowing
and the smoke is gone kind of gray.
But something's on fire there
because it hasn't gone out.
It's it's
it's it's putting out more smoke.
But, yeah,
when I see those rockets
going out there and the intercepts
above your head,
I'm just thinking about you
and your team, Brant and Clayton.
And I'm hearing I'm
and I'm hearing
small arms fire behind me there.
That's that's
the Israeli Defense Force, I believe,
will be firing towards Gaza.
I don't know if I've seen anything.
Small arms
fire, guns,
heavy machine guns, small machine guns,
okay. Thank you.
Absolutely. Nic.
No, we can hear that small arms fire.
We heard a right over your shoulder.
Have you been hearing
have you been hearing that
since the rockets
since this barrage kind of started up?
Right.
Basically, right at 10 a.m.
eastern
Yeah.
No, not really.
I mean, we don't get much
small arms fire, but,
you know, we had it in this town
siren two days ago.
We had it
and we knew that the IDF was going after
some Hamas militants in the town
because that is coming from towards Gaza.
Does that mean some Hamas
militants have been spotted
maybe at the border fence
trying to get through the border fence?
If they have, they popped out a tunnel?
We're seeing intercepts.
Clarissa,
I believe that there is missiles
coming your way
because I'm seeing intercepts
above your head.
So take take cover here
that they're going up.
They're intercepting right there.
Okay.
Yeah, you can see right here.
There you see a
right above us.
That's the Iron Dome intercepting,
just sort of crashing your balcony.
But you can see the plane
Clayton.
Just keep a little bit inside. Yeah.
So this is just the sirens
went off a matter of seconds ago.
And
now we're hearing
as those
rockets, it looks like
most of them were intercepted by the Iron
Dome up there.
You can see the plumes of smoke
from where
they were literally stopped
in their tracks.
Seems that maybe it's
a little bit quieter right now.
Not clear out.
There's another one.
Hold on.
You can hear a jet overhead now as well.
It's not uncommon in these situations.
You'll hear the intercepts, you'll hear
the Iron Dome at work.
And then pretty quickly after
that, you'll hear jets
and then the distant
thought of a strike and Gaza
still hearing
those rockets being intercepted
and just gives you a feel
for the the volume
of rockets that are being used.
I think many people initially
had been surprised
by how many,
how many rockets,
how extensive the stockpiling up.
And here another
sorry,
how extensive the stockpiling
and how effective
it's been in terms of the sheer
amount of rockets and some of them longer
range rockets and missiles as well.
So now appears to be
a little bit quieter.
We can still see those plumes of smoke
from where the Iron Dome was activated.
We can still see a plume of darker
smoke lower on the horizon from where
one of those rockets appears to have made
impact earlier on.
But clearly, Hamas
trying to send a very sobering message
to the people of Ashkelon today.
They warned people,
they told them leave by 5 p.m..
And it has been pretty unrelenting in the
I forget how long
we've been out here now,
but what are we talking?
35 minutes of pretty sustained,
I would say barrages of rockets
coming in to this cease port city.
Really remarkable for us as John Berman
here, we're seeing in real time
the Iron Dome
interceptor those rockets over your head.
And if we can just show people
this map very quickly
so we can remind people
where Clarissa is.
She is in Ashkelon right here.
Our Nic Robertson
and this is really also remarkable.
Nic Robertson was here in Central
looking over Gaza
as the rockets were being shot out
into Ashkelon.
Where Clarissa is.
Clarissa, we hear heard
explosions and blast there.
Was that from the sky?
Can you distinguish between intercepts
or whether there was any impact
on the ground from that last barrage?
Yeah, you can usually
you can usually
distinguish is a slightly different sound
when they're intercepted in
the sky as opposed to
when they make a direct hit
I will say the first barrage
right at 5:00
was the most sustained,
the most intensive
and the most amount of direct hits.
From what we heard,
we don't know where those hits
may have happened,
with the exception of that one location
where it appears
that one of those rockets hit again,
we don't know exactly
what was there,
but we've been going out every day now
and seeing the the impact and effect
that some of these rockets have.
They destroy cars.
They destroy homes.
They just leave craters in the streets.
And, of course,
they have a very palpable effect
on the psyche of ordinary people.
I think I hear a drone now.
Again,
drones are very common
at the moment for obvious reasons.
We heard some jets before as well.
We had been hearing pretty much constant
jet activity
yesterday, but
more so even the day before.
And it
is this utterly disco
bar violating sense
for people who live here between
on the one hand, sirens going off
and people are frantically running
to try to get to shelters and crouching.
And then you hear explosions in the sky
and then 5 minutes later,
everything feels quiet again.
You can hear the sea.
It's
it's hard to imagine
how people can live
like this day in and day out.
It's extremely difficult
to kind of find any sense of equilibrium.
And we have definitely notice
that the tempo in Ashkelon today,
this afternoon
has has dramatically escalated.
John
Clarissa, thank you.
Stand by for a second.
Let's go back to Nic Robertson instead.
Nic, you were hearing firing.
Describe what you were hearing
and what you think it might have been
what we were
hearing, what
sounded like small arms fire,
machine gun fire,
and that typically the Israeli
Defense Forces
won't fire their machine guns
unless they're close to a target.
And then we could hear
what sounded like exchange
exchanges of fire, sustained,
sustained bursts of fire
coming from
that direction towards the border fence.
There are several
we're saying it's literally
2700 meters, I think is
what is what you said, Sara?
The distance
between where we're at
and the border fence
and if Hamas is still
trying to make incursions.
We were down in that area today.
We were probably
about 700 meters
from the border fence earlier today.
And there are a lot of Israeli troops
down in that area,
combat troops and jeeps and tanks
and armored vehicles.
They're ready for the potential
of more Hamas
militants trying to slip inside Israel.
So it's possible
that that's what we've just heard there.
But the fact that the gunfire is subside
subsided tells me that
whatever that contact, to use the
military parlance, was
the contact is broken at the moment.
They're not engaged in a firefight.
So that is over
unless we hear it start up again.
But what we did hear during when Clarissa
was under that bombardment again,
just in the past few minutes,
we did hear a lot of artillery fire
being fired
from the Israeli forces into Gaza.
That's a very accurate artillery
that they used to try to target
the firing points
to try to get the the
the Hamas militants
who are firing the rockets.
And further south in Gaza,
I did hear a series
of even bigger explosions
and those may have been associated
with that fighter jet.
And I'm hearing another
sound explosion, detonation ripple
through the air
that may have been associated
with the fighter jets
that both Clarissa
and I heard flying in over Gaza
just in the past few minutes.